Ingredients

150g  Butter (at room temperature)
150g  caster sugar
3     eggs (not straight from fridge)
1/2 tsp Vanilla extract (or scrape the seeds from 1/2 vanilla pod - if you're posh!)
200g  plain flour
3/4 tspn  baking powder
3   tbspn  Milk
125g melted chocolate - dairy milk
1tbsp cocoa powder
Punnet of Strawberries

for ICING
140g  icing sugar, sifted (and don't make the mistake of using ready mixed Royal icing sugar - it won't make buttercream...)
70g unsalted Butter (at room temp.)
splash of milk (not straight from fridge)
slightly less than 1/4 tsp  vanilla

2x 15cm/6" tins or 1x 20cm tin
pre-heat oven to 180 C (fan assisted) for other types of oven - JFGI...


Steps

1 - Cream the butter and sugar into a delicious and squidgy mess - using a wooden spoon or mixer.
2 - Crack in the eggs and beat into a slightly gooey pasty mess 
3 - Fold in melted chocolate and milk,
4 - Sieve flour and baking powder together. Add to wet ingredients in thirds and fold in after each addition
5 - Sieve drinking chocolate into wet mix and fold all together
6 - Add a little milk until it has a custard-like consistency
7 - GENTLY stir in choc chips until distributed throughout (but don't worry yourself about evenly disbursed!)
8 - Grease a cake tin and line with thing to stop the cake sticking (baking parchment), or grease with melted butter and then sprinkle flour around it to stop sticking
9 - Split cake batter between two tins
10 - Cook at 180 degrees C for about 20/25mins (until a skewer placed in the centre comes out clean)
11 - Place on a rack to cool - for approx 1 hour before icing (otherwise = melty, slidey mess...)
12 - Icing, mandatory!! Butter icing (see below)
13 - Eat :)


How to make buttercream icing (AKA frosting)
(can be made by hand with wooden spoon but easier with electric hand or stand mixer)

1 - weigh icing sugar through a sieve, into a bowl and set aside
2 - put butter into large bowl or the mixer
3 - at a low speed, start to cream the soft butter, then add a couple of spoons of sugar REMAINING AT A LOW SPEED.
4 - in small amounts, add the remaining sugar, while mixing until it is all smoothly blended together
5 - add a splash of milk, and mix in on a low speed until smooth


